###### tags: `IM2009 Algorithms` `Homework`
# Algorithms Homework Assignment #1
B08705034 資管二 施芊羽
## Problem 1
Suppose the sum of the $i$-th row of the Pascal triangle will be $2^{i-1}$.
**[Base Case]**
When $i = 1$, the sum of the first row equals to $1=2^{1-1} = 2^0$. 
**[Induction Step]** 
When $i = n + 1$, as each entry will equal to the sum of the two entries immediately above it, which means each entry of the $n$th row will be part of two entries of the $(n+1)$th row. Thus, the sum of the $(n + 1)$th row will be twice the sum of the $n$th row. From the **induction hypothesis**, the sum of the $(n+1)$th row will be $2 \times2^{n-1} = 2^{n}$.

## Problem 2
**[Base Case]**
$H(2^1) = 1 + \frac{1}{2} = \frac{3}{2} \ge 1+\frac{1}{2} = \frac{3}{2}$
**[Induction Step]**
$H(2^{n + 1}) = 1 + \frac{1}{2} +\frac{1}{3} + ... +\frac{1}{2^n} + \frac{1}{2^n + 1} + \frac{1}{2^n + 2} +\frac{1}{2^n + 3} + ... + \frac{1}{2^{n+1}} \\ \ge 1 + \frac{n}{2} + (\frac{1}{2^n + 1} + \frac{1}{2^n + 2} +\frac{1}{2^n + 3} + ... + \frac{1}{2^{n+1}}) \quad\text{(by induction hypothesis)}\\ \ge 1 + \frac{n}{2} + (2^n \times \frac{1}{2^{n+1}})\quad\text{(Since  }\frac{1}{2^n+1}\frac{1}{2^n + 2}+...+\frac{1}{2^{n+1}}\ge\frac{1}{2^{n+1}}+\frac{1}{2^{n+1}}+...+\frac{1}{2^{n+1}} = 2^n \times \frac{1}{2^{n+1}} \text{)}\\= 1+\frac{n}{2}+\frac{1}{2} = 1+\frac{n+1}{2}$

## Problem 3
First, we know that any positive integer can be presented as $10(n) + k \quad k\in [0,9]$. 
We can also prove that any $k$ can be formed with $1,2,3,4,5$
$6 = 1 + 5 \quad 7 = 2+5 \quad 8 = 3 + 5 \quad 9 = 4 +5$.
Then we need to prove that any $10n$ can be formed with $S=\{10,20,40,80,...\}$.
**[Base Case]** $n = 0,1$
When $n=0$, we don't need any element from the set. 
When $n=1$, $10$ is in the set.
**[Inductive Hypothesis]**
For all $k$, $1\le k\le n, k \in N$ can be written as a sum of distinct numbers $S_k$, which is a subset of $S$.
**[Inductive Step]**
*Case I: $n+1$ is even*
Let $x = \frac{n+1}{2}, 1 \le x \le n ,\space x \in N$.
We know that $10x$ can be written as a sum of distinct numbers $S_x=\{x_1,x_2…x_i\}$ with each element in $S$.(from *inductive hypothesis*) 
Then $10(n+1)=2x$ can be written as a sum of distinct numbers $S_{n+1}=\{2x_1,2x_2…2x_i\}$ with each element is still in $S$.
*Case II: $n+1$ is odd*
Let $x = \frac{n}{2}, 1 \le x \le n,\space x \in N$. We know that $10x$ can be written as a sum of distinct numbers $S_x=\{x_1,x_2…x_i\}$ with each element in $S$.(from *inductive hypothesis*)
Then $10(n+1)=2x+10$, since $10n$ can be written as a sum of distinct numbers $S_n=\{2x_1,2x_2...2x_i\}$ which each element is still in $S$ and $S_n$ doesn't include the element $10$, therefore $10(n+1)$ can be written as the sum of distinct numbers $S_n=\{10, 2x_1,2x_2...2x_i\}$ 
To conclude, we prove that any positive integer can be written as a sum of distinct numbers from this series.


## Problem 4
**[Base Case]** let $n = 1$
$F(1) =1\\ G(1) = 2$
$G(1) = 2 \ne 1 -1 =F(1)-1$
Thus, the proof is wrong since the mathematical induction fails. 

## Problem 5
### ( a )
To inductively define the $SUM$ of a binary tree, we need to write a recursive function. We know that $SUM(\perp) = 0$ **[Base Case]** from the suppose of the problem. 

Then we can define that the $SUM$ of a node$(k,tr_l,tr_r)$ will be $k+SUM(tr_l) + SUM(tr_r)$ since the $SUM(node(k,tr_l,tr_r))$ will be $k$ added up with all the elements of the $tr_l$ and $tr_r$ which will exactly be $k+SUM(tr_l)+SUM(tr_r)$. To summarize, we can conclude that $$SUM(tr) =\left \{ \begin{array} {} 0&\mbox{if tr $= \perp$}\\ k + SUM{(tr_l)} + SUM{(tr_r)} &\mbox{if tr $\ne \perp$}\end{array} \right. $$
$k$ stands for a value that store at one single node of the tree, $tr_l$ and $tr_r$ represent two non-empty tree that is left or right under the given node.

### ( b )
As the problem defined $SUM(\perp) = -1$**[Base Case]**, however, we need to make the empty tree of a non-empty tree has a value of $0$. Hence we need to add more suppose then we did in problem 5.(a).
$$SUM(tr) = \left\{\begin{array}{}-1 &\mbox{$tr =\perp$} \\ k &\mbox{$tr=mode(k,\perp,\perp)$}\\ k +SUM(tr_l) &\mbox{$tr = node(k,tr_l,\perp)$} \\ k+SUM(tr_r) &\mbox{$tr = node(k,\perp,tr_r)$}\\ k+SUM(tr_l)+SUM(tr_r) &\mbox{$tr = node(k,tr_l,tr_r)$}\end{array}\right.$$
$k$ stands for a value that store at one single node of the tree, $tr_l$ and $tr_r$ represent two non-empty tree that is left or right under the given node. 

From observation, we can also alternate the function above to $$SUM(tr) = \left\{\begin{array}{}-1 &\mbox{$tr = \perp$}\\SUM'(tr)&\mbox{$tr \ne \perp$}\end{array}\right.$$
Hence, $$SUM(tr) = \left\{\begin{array}{}-1 &\mbox{$tr = \perp$}\\k+SUM'(tr_l) + SUM'(tr_r)&\mbox{$tr = node(k,tr_l,tr_r) $}\end{array}\right.$$

### ( c )
To define inductively a function $MBSUM$ that determines the largest among the sums of the key values along a full branch from the root to a leaf, first we define **[base case]** $MBSUM(\perp) = 0$.
Then we need to find the function $MBSUM$ of a non-empty tree. Since the $MBSUM(node(k,tr_l,tr_r))$ will be the maximum of $(k+MBSUM(tr_l), MBSUM(k+tr_r))$ because the largest among the sums of the key values along a full branch will only be connected to $tr_l$ or $tr_r$ from the root with value $k$. Hence, we can conclude that $$MBSUM(tr) =\left \{ \begin{array} {} 0&\mbox{if tr $= \perp$}\\ k + MBSUM{(tr_l)}  &\mbox{if tr $\ne \perp$ and $MBSUM(tr_l) \ge MBSUM(tr_r)$} \\ k+MBSUM(tr_r) &\mbox{if tr $\ne \perp$ and $MBSUM(tr_r) > MBSUM(tr_l)$}\end{array} \right. $$
$k$ stands for a value that store at one single node of the tree, $tr_l$ and $tr_r$ represent two non-empty tree that is left or right under the given node. 

### ( d )
As the problem defined $MBSUM(\perp) = -1$**[Base Case]**, however, we need to make the empty tree of a non-empty tree has a value of $0$. Therefore, we need to add more suppose:
$$MBSUM(tr) = \left\{\begin{array}{}-1 &\mbox{$tr =\perp$} \\ k &\mbox{$tr=mode(k,\perp,\perp)$}\\ k +MBSUM(tr_l) &\mbox{$tr = node(k,tr_l,\perp)$} \\ k+MBSUM(tr_r) &\mbox{$tr = node(k,\perp,tr_r)$}\\ k+MBSUM(tr_l) &\mbox{$tr = node(k,tr_l,tr_r), MBSUM(tr_l)\ge MBSUM(tr_r)$}\\
k+MBSUM(tr_r) &\mbox{otherwise}\end{array}\right.$$
$k$ stands for a value that store at one single node of the tree, $tr_l$ and $tr_r$ represent two non-empty tree that is left or right under the given node. 


