###### tags: `IM2009 Algorithms` `Homework`
# Algorithms Homework Assignment #2
B08705034 資管二 施芊羽
## Problem 1
#### The definition of the binary search tree
* The empty tree, $\perp$, is a binary search tree with no elements.
* If $t_l$ and $t_r$ are binary search trees, then $node(k, t_l, t_r)$, where $k \in Z$ and $k \ge 0$, is also a binary tree when $$ \left \{ \begin{array} {} t_l \text{ is a $\perp$ or $k$ of $t_l$ is smaller than $k$} \\ t_r \text{ is a $\perp$ or $k$ of $t_r$ is greater than $k$} \end{array} \right. $$

 #### The function that outputs the rank of a given key value
First, we determine the main function $Rank(tree, key)$.

$Rank(tree, key)= \left\{ \begin{array}{} 0 & \mbox{if tree = }\perp \text{ or }Exist(tree, key) = false\\ Rank'(tree, key) & \mbox{otherwise. }
\end{array}\right.$
Second I define the function $Exist(tree, key)$ to determine whether the key exists in the given tree. 
$Exist(tree,key) = \left\{ \begin{array}{} false & \mbox{if tree = }\perp \\
true & \mbox{if } tree = node(key, t_l, t_r) \\
Exist(tr_l, key) & \mbox{if } tree = node(k, tr_l, tr_r) \text{ and } key \le k \\
Exist(tr_r, key) & \mbox{otherwise. }
\end{array}\right.$
Third, I set the function $Rank'(tree, key)$ to find the rank of the key in the case that the key exists in the tree. To make the function easily to read, I represent $tree$ in the way $node(k,tr_l,tr_r)$.

$Rank'(node(k,tr_l,tr_r),key) = \left\{ \begin{array}{}  Rank'(tr_l, key) & \mbox{if } k \ge key \\
count(tr_l) + 1 & \mbox{if } k = key \\ count(tr_l) + 1 + Rank'(tr_r, key) & \mbox{otherwise.}  \end{array} \right.$
Last but not least, in $Rank'(tree, key) we use the function $count(tree)$ to count how many elements are stored in the tree; therefore, we also need to clearly define it.
$count(tree) = \left\{ \begin{array}{}  0 &\mbox{if } tree = \perp \\ count(tr_l) + count(tr_r) + 1 &\mbox{otherwise. }  \end{array} \right.$






## Problem 2
**[Base Case]**
When $h = 0$, $T(0) = 0 = F(0 + 2) - 1 = 1 - 1 = 0$.
When $h = 1$, $T(1) = 1 = F(1 + 2) - 1 = 2 - 1 = 1$.
**[Inductive Step]**
$T(n+1) = T(n) + T(n-1) + 1 = F(n + 2) - 1 + F(n + 1) - 1 + 1 \quad\text{by induction hypothesis} \\ = (F(n + 2) + F(n + 1)) - 1 = F(n + 3) - 1 \quad\text{by the definition of Fibonacci series}$
Hence, we can prove the relation $T(h) = F(h + 2) - 1$.


## Problem 3
I define a function $SUM(h)$ which stands for the sum of the heights of all the nodes in T which is of height $h$. Hence, we need to prove that $SUM(h) = 2^{h + 1} - h - 2$. 

**[Base Case]**

By the definintion in the problem description, when $h = 0$, the tree consists of one nodes which is the root, so that the height of it is $0$, $0 = 2^{0 + 1} - 0 - 2.$

**[Inductive Step]**

When $h = n + 1$, $SUM(h) = 2 \times SUM(n) + (n + 1) = 2 \times (2 ^{n + 1} - n - 2) + n + 1 \quad \text{by induction hypothesis} \\ =2 \times 2^{n + 1} - 2n - 4 + n + 1 = 2^{(n + 1) + 1} - (n + 1) - 2.$ 
Hence, we can prove that t the sum of the heights of all the nodes in $T$ which is a full binary tree of height $h$ is $2^{h + 1} − h − 2$.


## Problem 4
First, we need to prove the theorem is true for the 
**base case** which is $p = 3$, $q = 0$:

When $p = 3, q = 0$ the triangle must be a triangle with $base = 1, height = 1$. 
$\frac{p}{2} + q - 1 = \frac{3}{2} + 0 - 1 = \frac{1}{2} = 1 \times 1 \div2 = area$

**[Introductive Step]**

$p = 3, q \ge 0$
To solve the case, we can split the large triangle into small triangles. We find a point $q_1$ in the large triangle and connect it to the three vertices. Hence, we'll get three small triangles and asssume that there are $q_s$ nodes on the three new lines. 
$area = \frac{9 + 2q_s}{2} + (q - 1 - q_s) - 3 = \frac{1}{2} + q = \frac{3}{2} + q - 1 = \frac{p}{2} + q - 1$
After proving the general triangle case, we need to prove that the equation is true for any polygons: 
$p \gt 3, q \ge 0$
We can split the shape into a triangle and a polygon, and assume that there are $q_l$ nodes on the line. 
$area = \frac{(p + 2q_l)}{2} + (q - 1 - q_l) = \frac{p}{2} + q - 1$.

Therefore, we can prove that, if $p$ is the number of lattice points that are on the boundary of the polygon (including its vertices), and $q$ is the number of lattice points that are inside the polygon, the area of polygon is $\frac{p}{2} + q − 1$.


## Problem 5
State the loop invariant for the main loop $Inv(A, last, n) =\\ 1\lt last \le n, A[last + 1] ... A[n] \text{ is sorted and } A[1] ... A[last] \text{ remains unsorted} as well as $A[last + 1] ... A[n]$ are greater than the greatest of $A[1]...A[last].$

**[Base Case]**
When $last = n$, the whole series $A$ remained unsorted. 

**[Introductive Step]**
When $last' = last - 1$ after a loop, the series from $A[last]$ to $A[n]$ will be sorted in an anscending order, while the rest $A[1]$ to $A[last - 1]$ are still unsorted. 
And in the end of the function, the $last$ will be $2$ and it'll choose the larger between current $A[1]$ and $A[2]$ to be the second element of $A$ and finish the selection sort.  


